This repository contains the files for simulations that evaluate the impact of short-term bias and temporally-inconsistent preferences on the cost-optimal configuration of the power sector. The simulations model a consecutive decision-making process with a rolling one-year forward-looking window. In each time step, the social planner reassesses future years from a perspective that advances by one year. Furthermore, the simulations use two discount rate curves: one exponential and one logarithmic. Both curves reflect a declining interest in the future by decision-makers as time progresses, but the latter does so at a more rapid rate. Moreover, two decarbonization mechanisms are examined, carbon prices and emission budget. This time-inconsistent framework is implemented in a linear programming optimization model representing the power sector of Greece with a technological detail from 2019 to 2070 (the model is described in Koutsandreas, D., Trachanas, G. P., Pappis, I., Nikas, A., Doukas, H., & Psarras, J. (2023). ''A multicriteria modeling approach for evaluating power generation scenarios under uncertainty: The case of green hydrogen in Greece.'' Energy Strategy Reviews, 50, 101233.). 
 

To reproduce the simulations, the data file must be replaced with the desired scenario file simulation. The files located in 'Carbon_prices(Ref1)' account for scenarios involving carbon prices, while the files being in the 'Emission_Budget(Ref2)' folder represent the scenarios entailing a carbon budget. Correspondingly, the 'Exponential' folder involves scenarios with an exponentially increasing discount rate, and the 'Logarithmic' folder includes scenarios with a logarithmically increasing discount rate. The year X after the ''_'' in the scenario namer (''_X'') represents the base year of the model, at which investment decisions are taken. The selected file must be renamed as 'data' in the place of the homonymous file being in the main folder. Following, the scenarios can be run using the executable (.exe) file. A GLPK or CPLEX solver is required to solve the scenarios, with simulation results stored in the 'res' folder.
